we have this old saying in english  a man with a hammer goes around looking  at every problem as if it's a nail i  have never once in my life  heard a critique of vegans and veganism  and the relationship between vegans  and the climate change movement vegans  and ecology that took this line it would  be a useful and insightful criticism to  say well  what your problem is as a vegan is that  you're already committed  to animal rights you're already  committed to this ethical concern about  the torture and suffering of animals  and you know you're going around with a  hammer seeing every problem as a nail so  you think veganism is the solution to  climate change you think it's a solution  to the ecological problems on a global  scale on a local scale and you know  really it's kind of fundamentally  irrelevant that's a great criticism  completely false completely wrong  we have a whole lot of people who are  committed to  anti-capitalism  that's the hammer that's the hammer  they're carrying they're just gonna  blame everything on the capitalist  system and they can't see  veganism as the solution they can't see  veganism as addressing  climate change because they have to  blame  capitalism consumerism individualism  they use a whole lot of code words and  it all just boils down to crypto  communism it's the same [ __ ] from these  people again and again and it really  hasn't changed in a hundred years  really  you know we've got people who are  committed to an ocean of spiritualism  spirituality say oh you know  it's the crass materialism of our kind  and  it's it's  it's a spiritual crisis that if only  people could shed their commitment to a  modern materialistic scientific  worldview and instead take on this  particular  ideology they believe in whether that's  some hippie notion of mother earth or  theological notion and i know extinction  rebellion trades in all of these  delusions and more there is a very  important sense  in which there are many different  hammers  being held in the hands of ecologists  being held in the hands of people who  say  that there are saviors who say  that they're going to take on  climate change  all right  and fundamentally they're banging away  at the wrong nail  i'm gonna read you a comment i just left  on  the youtube channel of my my competition  there extinction rebellion and i'm  giving you the link in the description i  would encourage you to go over and and  give me the old thumbs up and you can  add your own comment agreeing with me or  disagree with me or chit chatting with  other people this is what i said i  managed to succinctly sum up eight years  of critique on this youtube channel  eight years of constructive criticism  setting up the nature of the problem  setting up the nature of the solution  quote  roger hallam's method  one  doesn't work  two  never has worked and three he presents  it on the basis of lies and half truths  about history  remember when he used the protests in  hong kong as a positive example by which  i mean an example of how his method  works  remember when he used the arab spring as  a positive example  ukraine  belarus  myanmar every single one of his examples  supporting quote unquote disruption as a  method  proves to be  factitious  if you don't know that word factit  doesn't mean that it's a fact  it means that he is manipulating he is  making up things in order to present his  case he is crafting with his hands he is  presenting with artifice  things that are perhaps not entirely  false but most definitely are not  entirely true  very few people in the audience  realize that he's lying  and lying to himself  when he talks about gandhi  martin luther king  etc  but he is  extinction rebellion is a political  movement built on a lie  and it refuses to acknowledge or promote  the one  non-disruptive  solution  that actually works  veganism  i hear a whole lot of talk from these  same people these same  crypto communist people  pseudo spiritual people  i hear a whole lot of talk about  eurocentrism  you're a whole lot of complaining about  privileging the views of wealthy white  people hey hey hey hey  some of my best friends are wealthy  white people that that really gets  are you saying are you saying the  perspective of someone is wrong just  because they're wealthy  it's a slippery slope here i'm half  joking but i'm deadly serious okay  if you ever heard someone walk up to a  restaurant say i refuse to eat in this  establishment it's run by wealthy white  people i refuse to eat this wealthy me  come on all right  aside from shaming  a whole lot of people including me for  being wealthy white people all right  what if we took seriously the question  of the eurocentric bias in this  discourse what if we took seriously the  perspective of a country like cambodia  or sri lanka  cambodia is poor  sri lanka is bankrupt  there's a difference you can be wealthy  but bankrupt  there is a model of how to address  climate change being demonstrated right  now by  one province of australia one there's  one province in australia  that is going on celebrating the fact  that they've set up a power grid with a  new type of battery and they've  integrated solar and wind power and all  the latest technologies they're  tremendously proud and they're saying  that they have a working model to  dramatically reduce  greenhouse gas emissions  reduce their impact on the climate  it costs billions of dollars  it costs money  cambodia doesn't have it costs money sri  lanka can't spend and if you scale it up  from one province in australia to a  whole country the size of china a whole  country the size of india there are all  kinds of negative knock-on consequences  i'm not saying it makes no difference at  all  what i'm saying to you is when you run  the numbers when you do the math  the positives  when compared and contrasted to a 100  vegan diet  they're less impressive  and the negatives the disadvantages are  more onerous they're more scary  all right fewer advantages and more  disadvantages but if you can do it  if you are in one of these white wealthy  western countries and you've got the  billions of dollars to burn  i am not morally opposed  to solar panels no no no no knock  yourselves out and you can do the math  and you can see how much of a rounding  error worth of a difference you'll make  in the next 20 years with those solar  panels or with reducing the number of  flights taken for tourism  all these ridiculous proposals where the  numbers just don't pencil a back of the  napkin calculation won't back up these  strategies all  right oh but i thought we were such  harsh critics  of the white wealthy eurocentric point  of view why don't you tell me  what cambodia can do and what sri lanka  can do  now why don't you tell me what the  poverty-stricken countries of africa and  south america can do  now and within the next 20 years  the answer  the only answer the only approach to  ecology that can make the difference we  need globally now  is veganism  period